The `pynxtools-spm` reader package is designed in a modular way to make it easy to add new readers for other file formats and extend the existing readers for newer file formats. Currently, the reader orchestra of `pynxtools-spm` hosting multiple readers for `STS`, `STM` and `AFM` experiments. It is envisioned that in future more and more readers for diverse file formats of other SPM techniques will be included in this package.

## __Starts Include New Reader for Other File Formats or New Techniques__
To include a new reader for other file formats, one need to follow the steps below:

__0.__ Clone and prepare the development environment for `pynxtools-spm`
__1.__ Go though the reader structure [here](../explanation/reader-structure.md) to understand the modular design of the reader package.
__2.__ Starts with creating a new parser module in `parsers` subpackage to read the raw data files from the new SPM file format and convert the raw data path into slash separated hierarchical path. For reading the raw data into slash separated hierarchical path, you can use third party python package if available for that file format or build your own code to read the raw data from the files. All parsers should build `SPMBase` class from `base_parser` module (you may take a look into a existing parser e.g., `nanonis_sxm` or `nanonis_dat`).
__3.__ Starts new formatter module in correspongin submodules of `nxformatters` subpackage. Always, try to use the base classes for formatters (e.g., `NanonisBase`, `omicronBase` in the modules `nanonis_base` and `omicron_base` repectively). On top of this base classes, you can use existing method or develop specific methods to curate the unstructure data coming from the raw files and `ELN` yaml file flowing the instruction given in `config` file (please follow one of the formatters e.g., `nanonis_dat_sts`.). Note that for good development of a formatter one should intesively follow the [application definition](link_goes_here) of the corresponging SPM technique.
But, adding new technique (e.g., scanning gate microscopy (SGM) the prerequisit step is to develop a application definition in [nexus defnitions repository](link_goes_here)). Please, follow the documentation [`writting an application definition`(https://fairmat-nfdi.github.io/pynxtools/how-tos/nexus/writing-an-appdef.html)] or reach us for better help. Then according to the reader structure, one need to create a new module with a the name of the technique as suffix in `nxformatters` subpackage.  